So we want to use mutations to change our state.
So let's go to the store.js file and add some mutations, like getters and state, this of course
is a reserved property name which vuex will detect and recognize and now mutations is again a list or
just a couple of methods we can execute.
For example let's add the increment mutation, the increment mutation takes the state as input like a
getter
but here of course we don't return it,
instead we change it,
so here we say state++, state.counter, excuse me, counter++ for example.
Now we also want to have a decrement mutation so I'll add this decrement where I then decrement the counter.
Now we centralize this functionality too,
now we only have one place where we do call this, here in ncounter
but if we would call that from multiple components again, then we would have the advantage of having
a central place.
So let's actually simulate this by creating a new file which I'll name
AnotherCounter.vue now, and another counter
basically just, whoops, copies the code from counter in here and in app.vue file,
I of course now also want to import another counter and add it as a component here, so let's add
app another counter and also add it up here, so that we too get these two counters in place so app
another counter.
Now we get the two counters,
now let's use our mutations.
We could use a mutation like this,
we access our store like before and then we simply can commit
as you learned it, a mutation running commit and then the name of the mutation as a string, that's important,
as a string.
So here we have increment and vuex will then search for a method named increment in our
store.js mutations object and will then execute this method and pass the state automatically
so we don't have to do that.
That's always true,
the state is passed automatically by vuex,
this is why we imported this third party package in the first place.
So I use this setup then for decrementing,
I use decrement,
I see your face,
that's not really getting shorter, does it
but we'll soon find a way to decrease the number of characters we are writing here. And with all that
in place,
if I now reload this, you now see I got a couple of buttons and I can all click them and they all work
here,
they all adjust our central store, now through mutations which we commit. Though as of getters, we do
have the problem that we're repeating this code here over and over again,
so it would be nice as with mapGetters if we could somehow map our mutations.
So turns out we can do this and actually it works exactly as mapGetters worked.
We have to import this helper method,
import map
mutations
from vuex,
so import this
and then you can either replace all your methods with map mutations
but since you probably also want to have your own methods mixed with the mapped mutations here, the better
way is to use the three dots again,
map mutations
and then as an argument,
whoops, you again pass an array where you have the names of the mutations you want to map, like increment
and decrement, so you can write this all like this.
And if you write it like this, then calling these methods up here will automatically work
since these are the same names, so I will quickly copy the code from here into another counter and replace
it here too.
And now let's see if this reloads, it still works
as before but now I think you agree,
it's much shorter since we map our mutations automatically and it has the big advantage that if
you want to change the way we adjust our state, let's say we want to automatically increase this
by 2
or that would not be valid syntax but let's say you want to run some calculation here and do more than
just increment it,
then you only have to change it in one place here and not all over your application again.
So like with getters, we're now making sure that our changing the state code is in one central place
and that we get easy access to these change functions or to these mutations by having the map mutations
helper method which basically gives us easy access to these functions.